Gerald R Spangler III 

Email: Koenar@Gmail.com | Phone: (330) 285-9917 | Linkedin: www.linkedin.com/in/gerald-spangler 

Shape 

Summary 

Sr. Data Engineer with 10+ years of experience in solutioning complex data challenges into actionable insights, with a keen eye on the evolving role of AI to augment and streamline decision-making. Seeking a Sr Data Engineering role with a focus on Gen AI in Nashville TN or full remote.

Technical Skills 

ETL Processes (SSIS, Talend) 

Data Warehouse Architecture 

Reporting Tools (SSRS, Tableau, PowerBI, Sisense ) 

Microsoft Excel (Advanced, VBA) 

SQL and Database Management (T-SQL, Oracle, MySQL, Snowflake) 

Cloud Platforms and Migration (GCP, AWS) 

High Availability Systems (Multi-Node, Multi-Environment) 

Programming and Scripting (VB.NET, C#.NET, ASP.NET, JavaScript, D3.js) 

AI and Machine Learning Tools Integration (ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot) 

Project Management & Agile Tools (Jira) 

Professional Experience 

Lead Data Engineer - Wellsky 

Headed the migration of Tableau & Jasper servers to the Sisense platform, streamlining reporting tools and achieving a 20% reduction in reports. 

Contributed to the transition from Oracle DB to Google BigQuery on GCP, enhancing cloud data storage and improving query efficiency. 

Data Engineer IV - Invitation Homes 

Founded and directed the Analytics Engineering team, implementing benchmarks for data processing using Snowflake DB and columnar data models, which resulted in a 90% decrease in average report load times. 

Deployed a multi-environment (DEV, TEST, PROD) high-availability, multi-node Tableau Server architecture on AWS, successfully eliminating unscheduled downtime associated with Tableau Server. 

Sr Data Engineer - naviHealth | Sedgwick CMS | InfoCision 

Spearheaded a major overhaul of 30+ client-facing dashboards, achieving a 60% reduction in load times, significantly enhancing reliability, and reducing downtime from weekly instances to less than once quarterly. 

Developed and maintained specialized healthcare data pipelines using SQL Server and Oracle DB, custom-tailored to meet advanced reporting needs and enhance operational efficiency. 

Implemented transformative ETL solutions, drastically reducing reporting runtime from hours to minutes, thereby optimizing data flow and enhancing operational efficiency. 

Managed comprehensive SQL, SSIS, and SSRS operations, enhancing data management and reporting capabilities for over 40 clients, ensuring exceptional data integrity and system reliability. 

Education 

The University of Akron 

Field of Study: Bachelor of Fine Arts in Oil Painting (Coursework) 

 

 